.TH HOMA_ABORT 3 2021-08-24 "Homa" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
homa_abort \- terminate an outgoing RPC
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <homa.h>
.PP
.BI "int homa_abort(int " sockfd ", uint64_t " id ", int " error );
.PP
.BI "int homa_abortp(int " sockfd ", struct homa_abort_args *" args );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These two functions will cancel the execution of one (or all) outgoing RPCs.
They behave identically except that
.BR homa_abort
receives its arguments as separate parameters, whereas
.BR homa_abortp
packs all of the arguments into a structure:
.PP
.in +4n
.ps -1
.vs -2
.EX
struct homa_abort_args {
    uint64_t id;
    int error;
};
.EE
.vs +2
.ps +1
.in
.PP
The
.I id
argument contains the identifier for an RPC; if this RPC is active on
.IR sockfd
then it is aborted.
If
.I id
is 0 then all outgoing RPCs on
.IR sockfd
will be aborted.
If
.I error
is 0, then the matching RPCs will be deleted and all state associated
with them will be freed (the RPCs will not
be returned by
.BR homa_recv ).
If
.I error
is nonzero, then the RPC(s) will immediately be placed in the completed
state so that they can be returned by
.BR homa_recv ;
the
.BR homa_recv
call will return an error, with an
.I errno
value of
.I error.
Regardless of whether the RPC(s) are completed or freed, the
servers for the RPCs
are not notified of the abort. If a
request has already been transmitted to the server at the time
.B homa_abort
is invoked, it may still be executed on the server. Any response
from the server will be discarded.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the return value is 0.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EALREADY
.I error
and
.I id
were both nonzero, but the RPC was already in the completed state. In this
case the system call has no effect.
.TP
.B EFAULT
An invalid user space address was specified for an argument.
.TP
.B EINVAL
There is no RPC corresponding to
.IR id .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR homa_recv (3),
.BR homa_reply (3),
.BR homa_send (3),
.BR homa (7)
