.TH HOMA_INVOKE 3 2019-02-15 "Homa" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
homa_invoke \- send a request and wait for response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <homa.h>
.PP
.BI "ssize_t homa_invoke(int " sockfd ", const void *" request ", size_t " \
reqlen ,
.BI "                    const struct sockaddr *" dest_addr ", size_t " \
addrlen  ,
.BI "                    void *" response ", size_t " resplen );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR homa_invoke ()
transmits a request to another socket using Homa and waits for a response
message to be returned.
The argument
.I sockfd
is the file descriptor of the sending socket; this must be a Homa socket.
The request message is stored in a buffer pointed to by
.IR request ,
and 
.I reqlen
gives its length in bytes. The length must not exceed
.BR HOMA_MAX_MESSAGE_LENGTH .
The destination socket for the request is given by
.I dest_addr
and
.I addrlen .
The response message will be stored at
.IR response ,
and
.I resplen
indicates the number of bytes available for the response.
If the actual response is larger than
.IR resplen ,
then excess bytes will be discarded.
.PP
This function is thread-safe: multiple concurrent invocations of
.BR homa_invoke ()
may be active at a given time.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the return value is the size of the response message,
which may be greater than
.IR resplen .
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
The address family specified by
.I dest_addr
is not supported by Homa.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I sockfd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
An invalid user space address was specified for an argument.
.TP
.B EINTR
A signal occurred after the request was queued for transmission,
but before the response was received; see
.BR signal (7).
.TP
.B EINVAL
The size of the request exceeded
.B HOMA_MAX_MESSAGE_LENGTH, or
.I sockfd
was not a Homa socket.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
No memory available.
.TP
.B ETIMEDOUT
The destination server did not respond to protocol requests.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR homa_recv (3),
.BR homa_reply (3),
.BR homa_send (3),
.BR homa (7)
